## Object-Oriented Programming, HTML Tables
#### The topmost object in the Document Object Model (or DOM) is the document object. It represents the web page loaded into the current browser window or tab. You meet its child objects in Chapter 5. Here are some properties of the document object, which tell you about the current page
## USING THE DOCUMENT OBJECT
#### This example gets information about the page, and then adds that information to the footer. 1. The details about the page are collected from properties of the document object. JAVASCRIPT These details are stored inside a variable called msg, along with HTML markup to display the 
## information. Again, the += operator

##### adds the new value onto the existing content of the msg variable. 2. You have seen the document object's getEl ementByid() method in several examples so far. It selects an element from the page using the value of its id attribute. You will see this method in more depth on p195.
## GLOBAL OBJECTS: STRING O BJECT
#### Each character in a string is automatically given a number, called an index number. Index numbers always start at zero and not one (just like for items in an array) his example demonstrates the 1ength property and many of the string object's methods shown on the previous page. 1. This example starts by storing the phrase "Home sweet home " in a variable called saying. JAVASCRIPT 2. The next line tells you how many characters are in the string using the 1ength property of the String object and stores the result in a variable called msg. 3. This is followed by examples showing several of the Stri ng object's methods. G) var saying= 'Home sweet home '; ~ var msg = '<h2>length</h2><p> ' +saying.length+ '</p>'; The name of the variable (saying) is followed by a dot, then the property or method that is being demonstrated (in the same way that the other objects in this chapter used the dot notation to indicate a property or method of an object).
### DATA TYPES REVISITED
### In JavaScript there are six data types: Five of them are described as simple (or primitive) data types. The sixth is the object (and is referred to as a complex data type)
### GLOBA L OBJECTS: NUMBER OBJECT
#### Whenever you have a value that is a number, you can use the methods and properties of the Number object on it
### Sometimes you will want several objects to represent similar things. Object constructors can use a function as a template for creating objects. First, create the template with the object's properties and methods. A function called Hotel will be used as a template for creating new objects that represent hotels. Like all functions, it contains statements. In this case, they add properties or methods to the object. The function has three parameters. Each one sets the value of a property in the object. The methods will be the same for each object created using this function.
### CREATING OBJECTS USING CONSTRUCTOR SYNTAX On the right, an empty object called hote1 is created using the constructor function. Once it has been created, three properties and a method are then assigned to the object. (If the object already had any of these properties, this would overwrite the values in those properties.) To access a property of this object, you can use dot notation, just as you can with any object. For example, to get the hotel's name you could use: hotel .name Similarly, to use the method, you can use the object name followed by the method name: hotel.checkAvailability()
#### ADDING AND REMOVING PROPERTIES Once you have created an object (using literal or constructor notation), you can add new properties to it. You do this using the dot notation that you saw for adding properties to objects on pl03. In this example, you can see that an instance of the hotel object is created using an object literal. Immediately after this, the hotel object is given two extra properties that show the facilities (whether or not it has a gym and/or a pool). These properties are given values that are Booleans (true or false). Having added these properties to the object, you can access them just like any of the objects other properties. Here, they update the value of the cl ass attribute on their respective elements to show either a check mark or a cross mark. To delete a property, you use the keyword delete, and then use dot notation to identify the property or method you want to remove from the object. In this case, the booked property is removed from the object
## RECAP: WAYS TO CREATE OBJECTS
#### CREATE THE OBJECT, THEN ADD PROPERTIES & METHODS In both of these examples, the object is created on the first line of the code sample. The properties and methods are then added to it afterwards. LITERAL NOTATION var hotel = {} hotel .name= 'Quay'; hotel .rooms = 40; hotel.booked = 25; hotel.checkAvailabil ity =function() return this . rooms - this .booked; Once you have created an object, the syntax for adding or removing any properties and methods from that object is the same. OBJECT CONSTRUCTOR NOTATION var hotel = new Object(); hotel.name = 'Quay'; hotel .rooms = 40; hotel . booked= 25; hotel.checkAvailability =function() return this .rooms - this .booked; CREATING AN OBJECT WITH PROPERTIES & METHODS LITERAL NOTATION A colon separates the key/value pairs. There is a comma between each key/value pair. var hotel = { name: 'Quay' , rooms: 40, booked: 25, checkAvailability: function() { return this.rooms - this .booked; OBJECT CONSTRUCTOR NOTATION The function can be used to create multiple objects. The this keyword is used instead of the object name. function Hotel(name, rooms, booked) {