## Forms
#### Traditionally, the term 'form' has referred to a printed document that contains spaces for you to fill in information. HTML borrows the concept of a form to refer to different elements that allow you to collect information from visitors to your site. Whether you are adding a simple search box to your website or you need to create more complicated insurance applications, HTML forms give you a set of elements to collect data from your users. In this chapter you will learn:
### Why Forms?
#### In addition to enabling users to search, forms also allow users to perform other functions online. You will see forms when registering as a member of a website, when shopping online, and when signing up for newsletters or mailing lists. The best known form on the web is probably the search box that sits right in the middle of Google's homepage.
## Form Controls
#### There are several types of form controls that you can use to collect information from visitors to your site.
## how Forms Work
### A form may have several form controls, each gathering different information. The server needs to know which piece of inputted data corresponds with which form element. To differentiate between various pieces of inputted data, information is sent from the browser to the server using name/value pairs. In this example, the form asks for the visitor's username and also for their favorite jazz musician. The name/value pairs sent to the server are: You should never change the name of a form control in a page unless you know that the code on the server will understand this new value. username=Ivy If the form control allows the user to enter text, then the value of the form control is whatever the user has typed in. vote=Herbie If the form control allows you to choose from a fixed set of answers (e.g. radio buttons, checkboxes or a drop down list), the web page author will add code that gives each option an automatic value. username=Ivy Name Value
### When the type attribute has a value of password it creates a text box that acts just like a single-line text input, except the characters are blocked out. They are hidden in this way so that if someone is looking over the user's shoulder, they cannot see sensitive data such as passwords. name The name attribute indicates the name of the password input, which is sent to the server with the password the user enters. size, maxlength It can also carry the size and maxlength attributes like the the single-line text input
## Text Area
## The <textarea> element is used to create a mutli-line text input. Unlike other input elements this is not an empty element. It should therefore have an opening and a closing tag. Any text that appears between the opening <textarea> and closing </textarea> tags will appear in the text box when the page loads. If the user does not delete any text between these tags, this message will get sent to the server along with whatever the user has typed. (Some sites use JavaScript to clear this information when the user clicks in the text area.)
## radio button
### name The name attribute is sent to the server with the value of the option the user selects. When a question provides users with options for answers in the form of radio buttons, the value of the name attribute should be the same for all of the radio buttons used to answer that question. value The value attribute indicates the value that is sent to the server for the selected option. The value of each of the buttons in a group should be different (so that the server knows which option the user has selected). checked The checked attribute can be used to indicate which value (if any) should be selected when the page loads. The value of this attribute is checked. Only one radio button in a group should use this attribute.
#### W hen you browse the web, your browser registers different types of events. It's the browser's way of saying, "Hey, this just happened." Your script can then respond to these events. Scripts often respond to these events by updating the content of the web page (via the Document Object Model) which makes the page feel more interactive. In this chapter, you will learn how: INTERACTIONS EVENTS TRIGGER CODE RESPONDS CREATE EVENTS CODE TO USERS Events occur when users When an event occurs, In the last chapter, you click or tap on a link, hover or fires, it can be used saw how the DOM can or swipe over an element, to trigger a particular be used to update a page. type on the keyboard, function. Different code The events can trigger the resize the window, or can be triggered when -kinds of changes the DOM when the page they users interact with is capable of. This is how a requested has loaded. different parts of the page. web page reacts to users.
## HOW EVENTS TRIGGER JAVASCRIPT CODE
#### When the user interacts with the HTML on a web page, there are three steps involved in getting it to trigger some JavaScript code. Together these steps are known as event handling. 1 Select t he element node(s) you want the script to respond to. For example, if you want to trigger a function when a user clicks on a specific link, you need to get the DOM node for that link element. You do this using a DOM query (see Chapter 5). The UI events that relate to the browser window (rather than the HTML page loaded in it) work with the window object rather than an element node. Examples include the events that occur when a requested page has finished loading, or when the user scrolls. You will learn about using these on p272. 8 EVENTS 2 Indicate which event on the selected node(s) will trigger the response. Programmers call this binding an event to a DOM node. The previous two pages showed a selection of the popular events that you can monitor for. Some events work with most element nodes, such as the mouseover event, which is triggered when the user rolls over any element. Other events only work with specific element nodes, such as the submit event, which only works with a form
